Mark Sheet

Project Proposal

REIT

ENGG

METR

Student Name:

Band

Topic Definition (20%)

There is no doubt about the

Excellent

intended coverage and contribution of the thesis. Includes

(85-100%) a project outline and clear

statement of purpose. Substantial

evidence of initiative.

Background (30%)

Student Number: Project Plan (20%)

20
19 Demonstrated mastery of the material in the topic area. Judicious selection of source material. Most
18 helpful in understanding the rest of the document.

30
A well justified, comprehensive, and 28 feasible list of milestones (with
resources and duration) and a
complete and accurate risk and/or 26 ethics assessment. Strong evidence
of initiative and self-reliance.

Supervisor:
Presentation (25%)
20 Excellent structure, so a pleasure to read. Neat,
19
professional presentation. A correctly formatted bibliography appropriately 18 referenced. No spelling grammar or punctuation errors.

Professional Practice (5%)
25 Very high level of communication 24 with supervisors; consistent
progress and organisation of the project, attending thesis sessions, 5 22 setting meeting agenda, reporting progress, and timely responses.

Clear intended coverage and
Very Good contribution of the thesis. Clear
(75-84%) outline and statement of purpose.
Some evidence of initiative.

Good (65-74%)

Shows intended coverage and contribution of the thesis. Includes outline and statement of purpose.

Shows some intended

Satisfactory coverage and contribution of

(50-64%)

the thesis. Partial project outline and statement of

purpose.

17
Mastery of the material in the topic area. Aids in understanding
16
the rest of the document.

25 A justified, comprehensive, and feasible list of milestones (with
24 resources and duration) and a mostly complete risk and/or ethics
23 assessment. Evidence of initiative and self-reliance.

15 Covers most of the material in the topic area and demonstrates some
14 understanding. Aids in understanding rest of the document.

22 A somewhat justified list of tasks 21 with resources and duration is
presented. An appropriate risk and/ 20 or ethics assessment is included.

13 Covers some of the material in the 12 topic area and demonstrates some
understanding. Some aid in understanding rest of the 10 document.

19
17 A somewhat justified list of tasks with resources and duration. A satisfactory risk and/or ethics
15 assessment is included.

Poor (25-49%)

Little indication of intended coverage and contribution of the thesis. Poor attempt at project outline and statement of purpose.

Very Poor

No indication of intended coverage and contribution of the thesis. No

(0-24%) project outline and statement of

purpose.

9 Incomplete coverage of the material in the topic area. Shows limited understanding of the
8 material in the topic area. Little 7 help in comprehending the rest of 6 the document.
5
No understanding of the material 3 in the topic area. Not related to the
rest of the document. Includes 0 work without academic merit.

14
A weakly justified, partial list of 12 milestones. No risk and/or ethics
assessment included.
10 8 7 3
0

Initial Mark:

/ 100 Comments:

17

21

The report has good structure, 16 which helps comprehension.
The presentation is neat and professional. A bibliography with occasional errors or 15 inappropriate referencing. 14 Insignificant spelling, grammar, or punctuation errors.
13

High level of communication with

19 supervisors; reasonable progress

4

and organisation of the project,

attending thesis sessions, setting

meeting agenda, reporting progress, 18 and timely responses.

3 17

12 The report may be poorly 11 structured in places, but still
able to be understood. Presentation is neat but minor 10 errors are present.
9
8
7
The report is lacking in 6 structure and becomes hard to 5 understand. Presentation is
untidy. The bibliography has 4 many formatting errors, with 2 poor referencing style.
0

16 Moderate level of communication with supervisors; Misses some
14 meetings without prior notification; attends some Thesis sessions and 2
13 takes some responsibility for organisation and communication.

12 Poor level of verbal and written

10 communications with supervisors; misses many meetings, participates

9 in few thesis sessions and

1

8 occasionally takes responsibility for organisation and communication.
7

6 Very poor level of professional 3 conduct in verbal and written
communications with supervisor, misses most meetings without notice 0 0 and has not participated in thesis sessions.

OHS Risk/Ethics
assessment
Pass/Fail

Late Penalty:

Final Mark:

/ 100 Supervisor's Signature:

Date:

This mark sheet is for School of EECS thesis project courses commencing after 1 January 2025. Supervisors: please enter the mark into the Thesis Dashboard and provide feedback to students.

Project proposal (10%)
Rationale: Each student must write a project proposal that clearly defines the thesis topic, presents a review of relevant background material and an assessment of the impact of previous work on the current project. Importantly, the project proposal should state the purpose, aims, coverage and relevance of the project, risk and/or ethics assessment and a project plan for its completion. All background and related material should be appropriately referenced and appear in a bibliography.
Delivery: There is no set format or length of the project proposal, and this should be discussed with the thesis supervisor. Using the format of the final thesis will assist in the integration of the material from the progress report into the final thesis. The length of actual text (excluding title pages, tables of content, etc.) is usually around 15 pages. The project proposal should be submitted electronically as directed in the course profile. The project proposal will be marked by the supervisor against the project proposal marking criteria.
Details
Topic, goal and relevance (20%): A clear definition of the topic, goals and relevance will leave the reader with no doubt about the intended coverage and contribution of the thesis. The definitions should include a project outline and clear statement of purpose. Student initiative should be demonstrated. Review of background and related work (30%): Background material for the thesis will most likely include a review of the literature in the area of the thesis, perhaps material from texts and previous theses that cover the background theory, and a review of prior art, where applicable. This review should not only help the reader understand the rest of the document, but should illustrate to the reader a mastery of the material in the topic area, demonstrated by appropriate depth and coverage of material reviewed, and by the successful comparison and discussion of the different material presented. The supervisor also indicates the degree of independence by which the relevant background is identified and mastered. Indirectly, the initiative and the ability of the student to find the relevant literature is tested. Note: Work without academic merit will not be marked (e.g. copied material even if properly referenced, not rephrased, synthesized and incorporated in the proposal). Project plan (20%): The project plan should consist of a well justified, comprehensive list of logically ordered tasks with logical milestones ­ each clearly relating to the project aims. Progress made so far should be articulated in relation to the plan. Each task should be assigned expected resource requirements (if any) and durations. Any risks (not just OHS risks) to the project/schedule must be identified. An OHS risk and/or ethics assessment must be completed before any practical/field work commences and be included in the project proposal. The proposal should demonstrate analysis capabilities, creativity and self-reliance of the student in identifying the project plan. Presentation (25%): The document should be well structured and easy to read. The presentation needs to be succinct and concise, without spelling mistakes or errors of grammar. The report must demonstrate appropriate referencing to a correctly formatted bibliography. Professional Practice (5%): Professional practice in the thesis project includes students' interactions with supervisors, thesis coordinators, thesis session lecturers and other EECS staff and students. It can be demonstrated through: Respectful communication verbally and in written formats such as emails, Ed Discussion board and workplace tools (e.g. Teams, Slack); Regular and timely attendance at meetings, or timely notification if a student will be late or must miss a meeting with their supervisor; setting meeting agendas and following up advice from their supervisor; active engagement in Thesis Sessions and producing regular written work that demonstrates a student's activities and progress.
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Risk and/or Ethics assessment (Pass/Fail)
An unsatisfactory (failing) OHS Risk and/or Ethics Assessment results in a mark of 0% for this project proposal.
Risks involved in any laboratory/practical/field work must be thoroughly analysed and the risk and/or ethics assessment included as a separate section `OHS risk assessment' and/or `Ethics assessment' in your project proposal. It is your responsibility to check with the supervisor the appropriate assessment required and/or hazard level and safety procedures in the laboratory you are assigned to http://www.eecs.uq.edu.au/etsg/
If you work in a Low risk laboratory your OHS risk assessment can be limited to a statement that you work in the Low risk laboratory covered by general OHS laboratory rules. Your overall risk assessment should still identify non OHS risks to your project/schedule.
If you work in either a Medium or High-risk laboratory you should make a thorough risk analysis of the work specific to your project. Consult your thesis and lab supervisors for advice on that before you start working in the lab.
If your project involves human participants, you must obtain UQ ethical clearance prior to the collection of any data. Your ethics assessment in your project proposal should be the starting point of this process and should sufficiently detail your intended research activities.

